.TH lrbd 5 
.SH NAME
lrbd.conf \- configuration object for Ceph RBD images
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B lrbd.conf
holds the configuration describing the relationships of pools, images,
luns, gateways, targets, tpgs, initiators and authentication.  Although the
.B lrbd 
command displays the configuration as a single text file, 
.B lrbd.conf
is the name of the object in a pool and never resides on a filesystem.  Each 
pool can have at most one configuration object.  If a pool has no RBD images
configured for iSCSI access, that pool will not have a configuration object.
The 
.B lrbd.conf
contains four sections: pools, authentication, targets and portals.
.PP
All configuration settings are stored in extended attributes.  The extended 
attributes are 
.B targets,
.B portals,
.I hostname,
.I target,
.I _hostname
and
.I _target.
The hostname and target extended attributes contain the pool configuration.  
.SS POOLS
Ceph pools may contain objects and RBD images.  An RBD image can be mapped
by a gateway host, shared via an iSCSI target and accessed by an iSCSI 
initiator.  Likewise, multiple pools may contain multiple RBD images, which
can be mapped by multiple gateways and accessed by multiple initiators.
Additionally, gateways may grant access across multiple network paths or 
portals. 
.PP
The image name is the name of the rbd image, the portal group is the name of the associated entry in the portal section and the initiator iqn matches clients for acl authentication.
.PP
The optional keywords are uuid, lun, rbd_name and all backstore attributes.  The uuid allows static assignment of the uuid and overrides the wwn_generate setting in the target section.  By default, luns are assigned dynamically.  Specify the lun keyword to assign a lun to a sepcific image.  The rbd_name keyword is a backward compatibility option to only use the image name for the backstore. The only accepted value is simple.  The default backstore name is pool name, hyphen and rbd name.  Any backstore attribute listed in the 
.B Tunable Attributes 
section below may be added as well.  The following JSON structure represents the pool configuration:
.PP
.RS 2
"pools": [ 
.RS 2
{
.RS 2
"pool":  
.I pool_name
,
.RS 0
"gateways": [ 
.RS 2
{
.RS 2
"host": 
.I hostname
,
.RS 0
"tpg": [ 
.RS 2
{
.RS 2
"image": 
.I image_name
,
.RS 0
"portal": 
.I portal_group
,
.RS 0
"initiator":
.I initiator_iqn
,
.RS 0
"uuid": 
.I unique_identifier
,
.RS 0
"lun": 
.I number
,
.RS 0
"rbd_name": 
simple
,
.RS 0
"backstore_
.I attribute
":
.I value
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
}, ... 
.RE
],
.RE
.RS 0
"target": 
.I target_iqn
,
.RS 0
"tpg": [ 
.RS 2
{
.RS 2
"image": 
.I image_name
,
.RS 0
"initiator":
.I initiator_iqn
,
.RS 0
"uuid": 
.I unique_identifier
,
.RS 0
"lun": 
.I number
,
.RS 0
"rbd_name": 
simple
,
.RS 0
"backstore_
.I attribute
":
.I value
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
}, ... 
.RE
],
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
}, ...
.RE
]
.RE
.RE
}
.RE
]
.SS AUTHENTICATION
Since gateways may have different security requirements, configurations
for authentication are tied to each host and target.  The 
.I _host
and
.I _target
extended attributes store the authentication configuration and credentials.
A gateway host will only read the relevant entries.  These entries are
combined under a common structure named 
.B auth.
.PP
Authentication for iSCSI is flexible.  Authentication may be absent or disabled,
have common credentials from all initiators to a gateway target or have 
specific credentials for each initiator to a gateway target.  Additionally, 
discovery authentication can be enabled independently which allows browsing 
of targets on a gateway with proper credentials.  Lastly, iSCSI supports 
mutual authentication mandating that a gateway target must authenticate 
itself to an initiator.  All methods support mutual athentication.
.PP
Many of the authentication sections may be absent, or present but disabled.
This allows for quick experimentation prior to finalizing a production
configuration.  The following JSON structure represents the entire
authentication configuration:
.PP
.RS 2
"auth": [
.RS 2
{
.RS 2
"host|target":
.I hostname|target_iqn
,
.RS 0
"authentication":
.I none|tpg|tpg+identified|acls
,
.RS 0
"tpg": {
.RS 2
"userid": 
.I initiator_userid
,
.RS 0
"password",
.I initiator_password
,
.RE
.RS 0
"mutual":
.I enable|disable
,
.RE
.RS 0
"userid_mutual":
.I target_userid
,
.RE
.RS 0
"password_mutual":
.I target_password
.RE
.RE
.RS 0
"acls": [
.RS 2
{
.RS 2
"iqn": 
.I initiator_iqn
,
.RS 0
"userid": 
.I initiator_userid
,
.RE
.RS 0
"password",
.I initiator_password
,
.RE
.RS 0
"mutual":
.I enable|disable
,
.RE
.RS 0
"userid_mutual":
.I target_userid
,
.RE
.RS 0
"password_mutual":
.I target_password
.RE
.RE
}, ...
.RE
],
.RS 0
"discovery": {
.RS 2
"auth": 
.I enable|disable
,
.RS 0
"userid": 
.I initiator_userid
,
.RS 0
"password",
.I initiator_password
,
.RE
.RS 0
"mutual":
.I enable|disable
,
.RE
.RS 0
"userid_mutual":
.I target_userid
,
.RE
.RS 0
"password_mutual":
.I target_password
.RE
.RE
}
.RE
},
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
}, ...
.RE
]

.SS TARGETS
The target section is optional, but required for environments needing 
static iqns.  Dynamically generated values are only suitable for demonstrations.
Generate static values with
.BR iscsi-name (5). 
.PP
The target structure is stored in the extended attribute
.B targets.
A target is associated with a host or group of hosts.  For locally configured targets, use the host attribute.  For redundantly configured targets, use hosts.
.PP
The wwn_generate keyword is a backward compatible option and only required for configurations requiring the original wwn generation using target and image.  The default generation uses pool, target and image.
.PP
Any tpg attribute listed in the 
.B Tunable Attributes
section below may be added as well.
.PP
.RS 2
"target": [
.RS 2
{
.RS 2
"target":
.I target_iqn
,
.RS 0
"host":
.I hostname
.RS 0
"hosts":
.RS 2
{ 
.RS 2
"host": host1, "portal": portal1 
.RE
}, ... 
.RE
.RS 0
"wwn_generate":
original
,
.RS 0
"tpg_
.I attribute
":
.I value
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
}, ...
.RE
]
.RE
.SS PORTALS
The portal section contains named groups of addresses.  Within a pool 
configuration, a tpg section references a portal group.  Multiple
addresses provide redundancy on a single gateway or across multiple gateways.
The names of the groups are arbitrary and can be set to anything meaningful.
.PP
Any addresses not available on a host are placed in a separate TPG.  This 
remote TPG is disabled, but will advertise all the addresses for a given
target.  This is how high availability can be achieved for an iSCSI initiator
across multiple gateways.  
.PP
The portal structure is stored in the extended attribute
.B portals.
A portal has a name and a group of addresses.  A single address is permitted.
An address may contain a port delimited by space, such as "192.168.1.100 3261".
.PP
.RS 2
"portals": [
.RS 2
{
.RS 2
"name":
.I portal_name
,
.RS 0
"addresses": [
.RS 2
.I address
, ...
.RE
], ...
.RE
.RE
}
.RE
]
.RE
.SH TUNABLE ATTRIBUTES
Several kernel parameters are available for modifying tpg and backstore behavior.  All are optional and listed separately to keep the Pools and Targets sections simpler.  
.PP
Changing these values requires consideration and testing.  The TPG related attributes are prefixed with tpg_ and can be included in the targets section.  The backstore related attributes are prefixed with backstore_ and can be included in the Pools section.
.PP
The TPG attributes are:
.RS 2
tpg_login_timeout
.RS 0
tpg_default_cmdsn_depth
.RS 0
tpg_default_erl
.RS 0
tpg_login_timeout
.RS 0
tpg_netif_timeout
.RS 0
tpg_prod_mode_write_protect
.RS 0
tpg_t10_pi
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
.PP
The backstore attributes are:
.RS 2
backstore_block_size
.RS 0
backstore_emulate_3pc
.RS 0
backstore_emulate_caw
.RS 0
backstore_emulate_dpo
.RS 0
backstore_emulate_fua_read
.RS 0
backstore_emulate_fua_write
.RS 0
backstore_emulate_model_alias
.RS 0
backstore_emulate_rest_reord
.RS 0
backstore_emulate_tas
.RS 0
backstore_emulate_tpu
.RS 0
backstore_emulate_tpws
.RS 0
backstore_emulate_ua_intlck_ctrl
.RS 0
backstore_emulate_write_cache
.RS 0
backstore_enforce_pr_isids
.RS 0
backstore_fabric_max_sectors
.RS 0
backstore_hw_block_size
.RS 0
backstore_hw_max_sectors
.RS 0
backstore_hw_pi_prot_type
.RS 0
backstore_hw_queue_depth
.RS 0
backstore_is_nonrot
.RS 0
backstore_max_unmap_block_desc_count
.RS 0
backstore_max_unmap_lba_count
.RS 0
backstore_max_write_same_len
.RS 0
backstore_optimal_sectors
.RS 0
backstore_pi_prot_format
.RS 0
backstore_pi_prot_type
.RS 0
backstore_queue_depth
.RS 0
backstore_unmap_granularity
.RS 0
backstore_unmap_granularity_alignment
.RE

.SH INTERACTION WITH TARGET SERVICE
The target service restores a local, saved configuration when enabled.  The
target service is unnecessary for the lrbd service since the configuration
is saved within Ceph.  If all storage for iSCSI access is within Ceph, the
target service should be disabled.
.PP
With care, both services can be enabled applying both a static configuration 
of local storage and the dynamically applied configuration from Ceph.  Systemd
will start the target service and apply any configuration saved via
.B targetcli saveconfig.
Then, the lrbd service will apply its configuration potentially overwriting
any shared sections.  Authentication would be the most likely cause of 
conflict.
.PP
To eliminate the chance of conflict, any locally saved configuration should use
a unique target.  Additionally, avoid saving the dynamic configuration locally.
Also, realize that clearing the configuration by stopping the 
.B target.service
or running 
.B lrbd -C 
will remove all configuration applied from either method.
.SH CAVEATS
The configuration is validated syntactically only.  It's quite possible to
overcomplicate a configuration unnecessarily by creating multiple targets or
tpgs when fewer are needed.
.PP
Additions and modifications of existing settings will behave as expected when a changed configuration is reapplied.  Renames and deletions may require clearing the configuration to remove the previous state.
.RE
.SH FILES
.I /usr/share/doc/packages/lrbd/samples/*

.RS
Several example configurations.  Portions of sections may be combined into
a desriable configuration.
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Eric Jackson <ejackson@suse.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lrbd.conf (5),
.BR targetcli (8),
.BR iscsi-name (5),
