.TH lrbd 8 
.SH NAME
lrbd \- configures iSCSI access to Ceph rbd images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lrbd [OPTION] 
.B ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lrbd
without any options will read the configuration from Ceph and 
apply the changes to the host.  The configuration is detailed 
in
.BR lrbd.conf (5).
Changes are executed via 
.BR targetcli (8).

The options are as follows:
.SH OPTIONS
.PP 
\-e, \-\-edit
.RS 4
edit the global configuration.  If the EDITOR environment variable is set, uses the specified editor.
.RE
.PP 
\-E editor, \-\-edit editor
.RS 4
edit the global configuration with the program specified.
.RE
.PP 
\-c name, \-\-config name
.RS 4
sets the object name in Ceph to name.  The default is 
.IR lrbd.conf 
.RE
.PP
\-\-ceph ceph
.RS 4
set the Ceph configuration file.  The default is /etc/ceph/ceph.conf.
.RE
.PP
\-H host, \-\-host host
.RS 4
specify the hostname which defaults to gethostname(). 
.RE
.PP
\-o, \-\-output
.RS 4
display the global configuration
.RE
.PP
\-l, \-\-local
.RS 4
display the host configuration
.RE
.PP
\-f file, \-\-file file
.RS 4
import the configuration from a file
.RE
.PP
\-a file, \-\-add file
.RS 4
add the configuration from a file
.RE
.PP
\-u, \-\-unmap
.RS 4
unmap the rbd images.  Images in use will fail to unmap.
.RE
.PP
\-v, \-\-verbose
.RS 4
print INFO messages
.RE
.PP
\-d, \-\-debug
.RS 4
print DEBUG messages
.RE
.PP
\-m migrate, \-\-migrate migrate
.RS 4
outputs migrated configuration to stdout from specified version
.RE
.PP
\-I, \-\-iblock
.RS 4
use an iblock backstore for images, default to rbd
.RE
.PP
\-R, \-\-rbd
.RS 4
use an rbd backstore for images, can override -I
.RE
.PP
\-W, \-\-wipe
.RS 4
remove all configuration objects from all pools.  Use with care.
.RE
.PP
\-C, \-\-clear
.RS 4
remove the current targetcli configuration from the host.
.RE
.PP
Some options may be combined, such as \-Cu to first clear the configuration and then unmap the images.  
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
Customize a sample configuration and import.
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
$ cp /usr/share/doc/packages/lrbd/samples/tpg.json /tmp
$ vi /tmp/tpg.json
$ lrbd -f /tmp/tpg.json
.fi
.if n \{\
.sp
.RE
.\}
Edit the current configuration with the editor joe
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
$ lrbd -E joe
.fi
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.sp
.sp
Display the configuration for another host on the current gateway.
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
$ lrbd -H gateway2 -l
.fi
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.sp
.RE
.SH FILES
.I /etc/sysconfig/lrbd
.RS
The environment file for customizing options for the lrbd.service
.RE
.I /usr/lib/systemd/system/lrbd.service
.RS
The service file to apply the configuration during boot.  
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Eric Jackson <ejackson@suse.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lrbd.conf (5),
.BR targetcli (8),
